Alternative hash_to_scalar without an xof (#151)
decentralized-identity/bbs-signature: draft-bbs-signatures.md

range(a, b)
: For integers a and b, with a <= b, denotes the ascending ordered list of all integers between a and b inclusive (i.e., the integers "i" such that a <= i <= b).

> strxor(octet_str_1, octet_str_2)

Reviewer: This isn't used anymore

Author: Good catch! Removed!

25. proof = (A', Abar, D, c, e^, r2^, r3^, s^, (m^_j1, ..., m^_jU))

> 26. return proof

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
26. return proof_to_octets(proof)
```

Definitions:

- expand_message, as defined by the hash-to-curve suite uniquely
                  identified by the hash_to_curve_id ciphersuite
                  parameter.
- seed_dst, is the octet string representing "BBS-SIG-GENERATOR-SEED"
            in the ASCII character encoding.

> - expand_length, non-negative integer. Defined by the ciphersuite.

Reviewer: I think this should be in the Parameters section

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

5. return result
```

> ### Hashing to scalaras

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Hashing to scalar's
```

5. return result
```

### Hashing to scalars

This operation describes how to hash an arbitrary octet string to `n` scalar values in the multiplicative group of integers mod r (i.e., values in the range [1, r-1]).  This procedure acts as a helper function, and it is used internally in various places within the operations described in the spec. To map a message to a scalar that would be passed as input to the [Sign](#sign), [Verify](#verify), [ProofGen](#proofgen) and [ProofVerify](#proofgen) functions, one must use [MapMessageToScalarAsHash](#mapmessagetoscalar) instead.

> This document defines two different hash_to_scalar operations

Reviewer: hash_to_scalar needs escaping, or maybe say something like "two different operations for hashing inputs into scalar values"

Author: Updated! Thank you!

> 1. `hash_to_scalar_xof`, is the more performant option which makes use of an extendable output function, making it ideal for use with functions like SHAKE256 or SHAKE128.

Reviewer: I think SHAKE-256 and SHAKE-128 (with the hyphen) for consistency

> 2. `hash_to_scalar_xmd`, is less performant in comparison, but does not require an extendable output function, making it more suitable for use with hash functions like SHA2 or SHA3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `hash_to_scalar_xmd`, is less performant in comparison, requires a fixed length output function like SHA2 or SHA3.
```

Author: Thanks! Updated!

#### hash_to_scalar_xof

> The `hash_to_scalar_xof` function takes as an input the message to be hashed and a non-negative integer inticating the number of non-zero scalars to be returned.

Reviewer: *indicating

```
result = hash_to_scalar(msg_octets, count)

Inputs:

- msg_octets (REQUIRED), octet string. The message to be hashed.
- count (REQUIRED), an integer greater or equal to 1. The number of
                    scalars to output.

Parameters:

- expand_message, as defined by the hash-to-curve suite uniquely
                  identified by the hash_to_curve_id ciphersuite
                  parameter.

> - dst, octet string. the separation tag defined by the

Reviewer: I'm not sure what DST value this is?

Reviewer: Ah, looks like it's the hash-to-curve ciphersuite identifier. There's a small issue that `hash_to_curve` is defined by the ciphersuite but `hash_to_curve_id` is referenced here and in `create_generators`

Author: Updated! Thank you! (named the ciphersuite parameter `hash_to_curve_suite` and used it in `create_generators` and `hash_to_scalar`)

       hash_to_curve_id ciphersuite parameter.
- expand_length, non-negative integer. The number of bytes required to
                 compute each scalar, defined by the ciphersuite.

Outputs:

- (scalar_1, ..., scalar_n), a list of non-zero scalars mod r.

Procedure:

> 1. len_in_bytes = cound * expand_length

Reviewer: I realized there's actually an issue with using expand_length here, as it conflicts with the recommended value for hash_to_field which is `ceil((ceil(log2(p)) + k) / 8)`. For BLS12-381 that is 48 bytes, but we have expand_length set to 64 bytes.

Reviewer: Yes, 64 is the number of bytes when hashing to a G1 point (32 bytes are used for each component). If we want to allow the use of hash_to_field then I think we would need two different expand_length parameters, or we should just remove it from the ciphersuite and use definitions.

Author: Thank you very much for the feedback :) This is clearly confusing so moving to definitions is the best option IMO.

For `ProofGen` I removed the update from here and re-introduce it in PR #183. For `create_generators` and `hash_to_scalar` I made the update here.

2. dst_prime = dst || "HASH_TO_SCALAR_"

3. t = 0

4. msg_prime = msg_octets || I2OSP(t, 1) || I2OSP(count, 4)

5. uniform_bytes = expand_message(msg_prime, dst_prime, len_in_bytes)

6. for i in (1, ..., count):

> 7.     tv = uniform_bytes[(i-1)*expand_length..i*expand_length]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7.     tv = uniform_bytes[(i-1)*expand_length..i*expand_length-1]
```

Author: Done!

Parameters:

> - r (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The prime order of the G_1 and G_2 groups, defined by the ciphersuite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- r (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The prime order of the G1 and G2 groups, defined by the ciphersuite.
```

Parameters:

- r (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The prime order of the G1 and G2 groups, defined by the ciphersuite.
- expand_length (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The number of bytes to read from the xof function, defined by the ciphersuite.

> - dst (REQUIRED), octet string. Domain separation tag.

Reviewer: It seems odd to list cipher suite parameters as required, aren't they all?

Author: Agreed, however there is the `key_info` parameter that is `OPTIONAL`.  IMO this is the reason that every other parameter is `REQUIRED`. Agreed though that this is not ideal, but it is "necessary evil" IMO.

Outputs:

- (scalar_1, ..., scalar_n), a list of non-zero scalars mod r.

Procedure:

1. dst_prime = (I2OSP(len(dst), 1) || dst)

2. msg_prime = (I2OSP(len(msg), 8) || msg)

3. h = xof(msg_prime || dst_prime || I2OSP(0, 1) || I2OSP(n, 8))

4. for i in (1, ..., n):

5.     scalar_i = OS2IP(h.read(expand_length)) mod r

> 6.     if scalar_i is 0, go back to step 3

Reviewer: I think it should return to step 5?

7. return (scalar_1, ..., scalar_n)
```

#### hash_to_scalar_xmd

> Implementations not wishing to use the more performant `hash_to_scalar_xof` operation, can elect to use `hash_to_scalar_xmd`. The `hash_to_scalar_xmd` is based on the `expand_message_xmd` function defined in Section 5.4 of [@!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve], with the addition of checking if the resulting scalar is 0.

Author: Added some text to highlight this fact! Hopefully it is clear enough??

```
result = hash_to_scalar_xmd(msg_octets, n)

Inputs:
- msg_octets (REQUIRED), octet string. The message to be hashed.

> - n (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The number of scalars to output.

Reviewer: I think `n` should be greater than 0

Author: Thank you! Updated

Parameters:

- r (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The prime order of the G1 and G2 groups, defined by the ciphersuite.
- expand_length (REQUIRED), non-negative integer. The number of bytes required to compute each scalar, defined by the ciphersuite.

> - b_in_bytes (REQUIRED), b / 8 for b the output size of H in bits. For example, for b = 256, b_in_bytes = 32.

Reviewer: For consistency maybe just say "the output size of H measured in bytes, equal to b / 8".

Should we just define these during the procedure based on `b` and `s`?

Author: Agreed. Updated to use `b` and `s` instead. Thanks!

> - s_in_bytes (REQUIRED), the input block size of H, measured in bytes. For example, for SHA-256, s_in_bytes = 64.

Reviewer: SHA-256 output is 32 bytes

- dst (REQUIRED), octet string. Domain separation tag.

Procedure:

1. ell = ceil(expand_length / b_in_bytes)

> 2. dst_prime = dst || I2OSP(len(dst), 1)

Reviewer: I think the DST length should be prepended for consistency

Author: It's true that this hurts consistency but there is a security reason for that. See [here](https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve/issues/236) and [here](https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve/pull/241) for context.

### TL;TR
 prepending len(DST) here will mean that there are different `msg`, `dst`, `expand_length` combinations that give the same hash output. 
 
### Note 
AFAIK there are 2 solutions to the above.

1. prepend the length of the message as well.
2. append the length of the dst only.

Neither are 100% consistent with the [Encoding of elements to be hashed](https://identity.foundation/bbs-signature/draft-bbs-signatures.html#name-encoding-of-elements-to-be-) section (for option 1 it may not be as "obvious", but after "appending" the lengths of some of the to-be-hashed elements one may thing that we would not need to append the length of the "entire" concatenated result as well).

For that reason, I prefer the current approach (option 2, i also update `hash_to_scalar_xof` to follow this). The "elements to be hashed" section will need updating IMO to something like "concatenating elements" or "Inputs to hash_to_scalar encoding".

Interested to hear others thoughts here as well.

Reviewer 2: Im in favour of option 2 also

- hash: a cryptographic hash function.

> - expand\_length: Number of bytes to draw from the xof when performing operations such as creating generators as per the operation documented in (#creategenerators) or computing the e and s components of the signature generated in (#sign). It is RECOMMENDED this value be set to one greater than `ceil(r+k)/8` for the ciphersuite, where `r` and `k` are parameters from the underlying pairing friendly curve being used.

Reviewer: Also applies to the xmd method. Maybe we can escape `e` and `s` here.

Author: Thank you! Updated the description for `expand_length`.

### Additional Parameters

The parameters that each ciphersuite needs to define are generally divided into three main categories; the basic parameters (a hash function etc.,), the serialization operations (point_to_octets_g1 etc.,) and the generator parameters. See below for more details.

**Basic parameters**:

- hash: a cryptographic hash function.

- octet\_scalar\_length: Number of bytes to represent a scalar value, in the multiplicative group of integers mod r, encoded as an octet string. It is RECOMMENDED this value be set to `ceil(log2(r)/8)`.

- octet\_point\_length: Number of bytes to represent a point encoded as an octet string outputted by the `point_to_octets_g*` function. It is RECOMMENDED that this value is set to `ceil(log2(p)/8)`.

> - hash\_to\_curve\_suite: The hash-to-curve ciphersuite id, in the form defined in [@!I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve], along with a domain separation tag (dst). This defines the hash\_to\_curve\_g1 (the hash\_to\_curve operation for the G1 subgroup, see the [Notation](#notation) section) and the expand\_message (either expand\_message\_xmd or expand\_message\_xof) operations used in this document. Note, the dst defined here only forms the prefix of the actual dst used by hash\_to\_curve\_g1 or expand\_message. The actual value of the dst used by those operations, will be formed by the operation calling them.

Author: Done! (used 2nd option, i.e., using the `hash_to_curve_suite` value to create each dst). Thanks!

- hash: a cryptographic hash function.

> - expand\_length: Number of bytes to expand a message that will be hashed to a scalar (see [Hashing to Scalars](#hashing-to-scalars)) or to a point in G1 (i.e., a generator, see [Create Generators](#creategenerators)). It is RECOMMENDED that this value is set to one greater or equal to `ceil(r+k)/8` for the ciphersuite, where `r` and `k` are parameters from the underlying pairing friendly curve being used.

Reviewer: I don't think `ceil(r+k)/8` is correct (it's huge). Maybe `ceil((ceil(log2(p)) + k) / 8)`

Author: Good catch! Yea it was wrong. Fixed.

- hash: SHAKE-256 as defined in [@!SHA3].

> - expand\_length: 64.

Author: Yea good idea! Done!

- hash: SHAKE-256 as defined in [@!SHA3].

> - expand\_length: 48.

Reviewer: I don't think this is used anymore

Author: I'm really sorry about that! Fixed. Thanks!
